docs/components/ActivityList.md, before:

# ActivityList Component Documentation

## Navigation
- [Component Documentation Index](../README.md)
- [ActivityCrud](./ActivityCrud.md)
- [ActivityForm](./ActivityForm.md)

## Overview
`ActivityList` displays a list of activities with edit and delete actions. It is used within `ActivityCrud` for activity management. The component is styled with Bootstrap and supports accessibility and responsive design.

## Props
| Prop           | Type                | Required | Description                                 |
|----------------|---------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------|
| activities     | Activity[]          | Yes      | List of activities to display               |
| onEdit         | (activity: Activity) => void | Yes      | Callback for editing an activity            |
| onDelete       | (activity: Activity) => void | Yes      | Callback for deleting an activity           |

## State Management
- Stateless; receives all data and callbacks via props

## Theme Compatibility
- Uses Bootstrap classes for styling
- Inherits theme from parent

## Mobile Responsiveness
- Responsive layout adapts to mobile screens
- Touch-friendly action buttons

## Accessibility
- ARIA labels for action buttons
- Keyboard navigation for edit/delete actions
- Semantic HTML for list structure

## Test Coverage Summary
- Renders activity list
- Edit and delete actions
- Accessibility: ARIA, keyboard navigation
- Edge cases: empty list, long activity names

## Usage Examples
```tsx
<ActivityList activities={activities} onEdit={handleEdit} onDelete={handleDelete} />
```

## Known Limitations / Edge Cases
- No bulk actions (handled in ActivityCrud)
- Relies on parent for error handling and state

## Change History
- 2024-06-13: Initial implementation with Bootstrap styling and accessibility

## Related Components
- [ActivityCrud](./ActivityCrud.md)
- [ActivityForm](./ActivityForm.md)

---
[Back to Component Documentation Index](../README.md)

Commit message:

Refactor: Canonical Activity type integration, color handling, and documentation updates. All components, tests, and docs now use canonical Activity type and derive colors from colorIndex. Memory Log and Implemented Changes updated. Closes Phase 4.

docs/components/ActivityList.md, after:

# ActivityList Component Documentation

## Navigation
- [Component Documentation Index](../README.md)
- [ActivityCrud](./ActivityCrud.md)
- [ActivityForm](./ActivityForm.md)

## Overview
`ActivityList` displays a list of activities with edit and delete actions. It is used within `ActivityCrud` for activity management. The component is styled with Bootstrap and supports accessibility and responsive design.

## Props
| Prop           | Type                | Required | Description                                 |
|----------------|---------------------|----------|---------------------------------------------|
| activities     | Activity[]          | Yes      | List of activities to display (canonical type, see ActivityForm.md) |
| onEdit         | (activity: Activity) => void | Yes      | Callback for editing an activity            |
| onDelete       | (activity: Activity) => void | Yes      | Callback for deleting an activity           |

## State Management
- Stateless; receives all data and callbacks via props

## Theme Compatibility
Uses Bootstrap classes for styling
Inherits theme from parent
Color sets for display are derived from `colorIndex` using `getNextAvailableColorSet`.

## Mobile Responsiveness
- Responsive layout adapts to mobile screens
- Touch-friendly action buttons

## Accessibility
- ARIA labels for action buttons
- Keyboard navigation for edit/delete actions
- Semantic HTML for list structure

## Test Coverage Summary
- Renders activity list
- Edit and delete actions
- Accessibility: ARIA, keyboard navigation
- Edge cases: empty list, long activity names

## Usage Examples
```tsx
<ActivityList activities={activities} onEdit={handleEdit} onDelete={handleDelete} />
```

## Known Limitations / Edge Cases
- No bulk actions (handled in ActivityCrud)
- Relies on parent for error handling and state

## Change History
- 2024-06-13: Initial implementation with Bootstrap styling and accessibility

## Related Components
- [ActivityCrud](./ActivityCrud.md)
- [ActivityForm](./ActivityForm.md)

---
[Back to Component Documentation Index](../README.md)
